Exposing Cruise Control metrics (#3411)
strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator: documentation/assemblies/metrics/assembly_metrics-cruise-control.adoc

// This assembly is included in the following assemblies:
//
// metrics/assembly-metrics.adoc

[id='assembly-cruise-control-{context}']
= Monitor Cruise Control

If you are already using Prometheus and Grafana for monitoring of built-in Kafka metrics, you can configure Prometheus to also scrape the Cruise Control Prometheus endpoint.

> The example Grafana dashboard for the Cruise Control provides:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example Grafana dashboard for Cruise Control provides:
```

> * Information about rebalance proposals computation, goals violation, cluster balancedness and more

Reviewer 2: This should be "optimization proposals" rather than "rebalance" to be consitent with the rest of the docs.

> * Information about optimization proposals computation, goals violation, cluster balancedness and more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Information about optimization proposals computation, goals violation, cluster balancedness, and more
```

* Information about REST API calls for rebalance proposals and actual rebalance operations
* JVM metrics from Cruise Control itself

== Configuring Cruise Control

> You can enable the Cruise Control metrics in the `Kafka` resource using the `cruiseControl.metrics` property that contains the JMX exporter configuration about metrics to expose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can enable the Cruise Control metrics in the `Kafka` resource using the `cruiseControl.metrics` property that contains the JMX exporter configuration about the metrics to expose.
```

For example:

> +

Reviewer: You don't need a plus here unless I'm mistaken!

Author: I copied it from the assembly_metrics-kafka-bridge.adoc, if you think it's not needed I am going to remove it anyway.

[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
apiVersion: {KafkaApiVersion}
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: my-cluster
spec:
  # ...
  kafka:
    # ...
  zookeeper:
    # ...
  cruiseControl:
    metrics:
      lowercaseOutputName: true
      rules:
      - pattern: kafka.cruisecontrol<name=(.+)><>(\w+)
        name: kafka_cruisecontrol_$1_$2
        type: GAUGE
----

== Enabling the Cruise Control Grafana dashboard

If you deployed Cruise Control with your Kafka cluster with the metrics enabled, you can enable Grafana to present the metrics data it exposes.

A Cruise Control dashboard is provided in the `examples/metrics` directory as a JSON file:

* `strimzi-cruise-control.json`

When metrics data has been collected for some time, the Cruise Control charts are populated.

Cruise Control:: Shows metrics for:
+

> * The number of snapshot windows that are monitored

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Number of snapshot windows that are monitored by Cruise Control
```

> * Number of time windows considered to be valid because of enough samples for computing a proposal.

Reviewer 2: The other points don't end with a full stop so, for consitency, you should remove the one at the end of this line.

> * Number of time windows considered to be valid because of enough samples for computing a proposal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Number of time windows considered valid because they contain enough samples to compute an optimization proposal
```

> * Number of ongoing executions running for proposals or rebalance

Reviewer 2: "rebalances"

> * The current balancedness score of the Kafka cluster as calculated by the anomaly detector (every 5 minutes by default)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Current balancedness score of the Kafka cluster as calculated by the anomaly detector component of Cruise Control (every 5 minutes by default)
```

> * The percentafe of monitored partitions

Reviewer 2: "percentage"

> * The percentage of monitored partitions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Percentage of monitored partitions
```

> * How often a goal violation happens

Reviewer 2: Is it a rate? Probably better to say "the number of goal violations reported by the anomaly detector (every 5 mins by default)".

> * The number of goal violations reported by the anomaly detector (every 5 minutes by default)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Number of goal violations reported by the anomaly detector (every 5 minutes by default)
```

* How often a disk read failure happens on the brokers

> * Failures rate about fetching samples

Reviewer 2: "Rate of metric sample fetch failures"

> * Time needed for computing a rebalance proposal

Reviewer 2: optimization proposal

> * Time needed for computing an optimization proposal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Time needed to compute an optimization proposal
```

> * Time for creating a cluster model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Time needed to create the cluster model
```

> * How often a proposal request or an actual rebalance request is made through the REST API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* How often a proposal request or an actual rebalance request is made through the Cruise Control REST API
```

> * How often the overall cluster state and the user tasks state are requested through the REST API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* How often the overall cluster state and the user tasks state are requested through the Cruise Control REST API
```
